Song Currently Stuck in My Head: Falling in Love With Love
Published on November 01, 2008.
There’s an instrumental version of this song by the Art Blakey Trio that I’ve liked for a while.
One day, I don’t remember quite when, the random feature of iTunes played me the vocal version on the giant Clifford Brown collection I have.
I like learning the words to songs, especially Jazz standards, so it was a surprise to me that the song actually had words:
Falling in love with love is falling for make-believe Falling in love with love is playing the fool Caring too much is such a juvenile fancy Learning to trust is just for children in school I fell in love with love one night when the moon was full I was unwise with eyes unable to see I fell in love with love with love everlasting But love fell out with me
What’s interesting is that there are two rhymes for each line.
Like how ‘trust’ rhymes with ‘just’ and ‘fool’ rhymes with ‘school.’ It’s easier to do in this song since there’s only like, eight lines and most of the time they’re just rhyming ‘love’ with ‘love’ anyway.
I like the idea of a song about falling in love with love.
It’s meta! The only way to get more meta would be to write a song about this blog post about a song about falling in love with love!
Someone should totally do this.
At first, I thought the line was “caring too much is just a juvenile fantasy” because all the instrumental versions I’ve heard give that note extra “syllables.”
I guess instrumentalists can take more liberties with the song than vocalists.
Sometimes I think adding more “syllables” is a bad idea, but it works in this song (maybe because I heard it that way first).
I started listening to a bunch of different versions of the song on Last.fm.
The Sarah Vaughn version is pretty damn sweet!